feat(mnq): add how tos and quickstart (#2228)
scaleway/docs-content: serverless/messaging/how-to/deactivate-delete-messaging.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to deactivate or delete a Messaging and Queuing service
  description: This page explains how to deactivate or delete a Messaging and Queuing service
content:
  h1: How to deactivate or delete a Messaging and Queuing service
  paragraph: This page explains how to deactivate or delete a Messaging and Queuing service
dates:
  validation: 2023-10-03
  posted: 2023-10-03
tags: delete messaging queuing queueing messaging-and-queuing service disable deactivate nats-account stop
categories:
  - serverless 
---

This page shows how to deactivate an SQS or SNS service, or delete a NATS account. These two processes are different, but equivalent.

<Macro id="iam-requirements" />

<Message type="requirement">
  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
  - You have [activated SQS or SNS, or created a NATS account](/serverless/messaging/how-to/get-started/)
</Message>

## How to deactivate SNS or SQS

> 1. Click **Messaging** in the **Serverless** section of the side menu. The list of Messaging and Queuing protocols displays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Messaging** in the **Serverless** section of the Scaleway console side menu. The list of Messaging and Queuing protocols displays.
```

2. Click **SQS** or **SNS** depending on which protocol you want to deactivate.

3. Click the **Settings** tab.

4. In the bottom panel, click the **Deactivate** button for the protocol.

>     A popup displays, reminding you that any existing SQS (or SNS) resources you have will be permanently deleted, and that you will not be able to create any new queues/topics or credentials unless you reactivate the protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    A pop-up displays, reminding you that any existing SQS (or SNS) resources you have will be permanently deleted, and that you will not be able to create any new queues/topics or credentials unless you reactivate the protocol.
```

5. Click **Deactivate SQS** (or SNS) to confirm.

## How to delete a NATS account

> 1. Click **Messaging** in the **Serverless** section of the side menu. The list of Messaging and Queuing protocols displays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Messaging** in the **Serverless** section of the Scaleway console side menu. The list of Messaging and Queuing protocols displays.
```

2. Click **NATS**, then click the NATS account you want to delete.

3. In the bottom panel, click the **Delete NATS account** button.

>     A popup displays, reminding you that the action is irreversible, and any associated queued messages and credentials will be deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    A pop-up displays, reminding you that the action is irreversible, and any associated queued messages and credentials will be deleted.
```

> 5. Type `DELETE` and click **Delete NATS account** to confirm.

Reviewer 2: ici aussi step 4 ?

Author: Fixed
